General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
PRELUDE TO THE BATTLE OF DEL'AL-MEIN: 

Throughout the First Age, the skirmishing between the Drow defenders and the
dwarven warriors had been rather low-key - little more than hit and fade or 
nuisance raids.  Neither side seemed committed to a major engagement; the Elves
because the Drow were largely untested and the dwarves because of their 
numerical inferiority.  But as the dwarf prospered with each generation and as
dwarven need for leadership became more pronounced, this was sure to change.
The Battle of Del'Al-Mein is marked as not only the definitive battle of the
second elf-dwarf war and as a large escalation in the violence between the two
races but as the opening act of the Second Age as well.

Five dwarven warlords, each vying for supremacy devised a plan whereby each
would lead his followers in a massed attack on the Elven Council's enclave,
whichever warlord distinguished himself the most, would be crowned Lord High
Darmok of all the dwarven lands.  Each warlord brought his forces in number and
motivated his lieutenants to supreme achievement with offers of position within
his Darmokship upon success.

On the Elven side, the Drow had crafted a system of pit traps and snares around
their encampments, and had numerous telltales to provide warning of undermining
and tunneling in the region.  They had a significant advantage in number, 
despite the dwarves large commitment, but their numbers were padded with many
untrained youths and untested warriors.  The youths, while untrained, held the
Drow warriors in virtual adoration and were willing to do almost anything to
win praise and recognition, something the Council of High Ones had taken note
of and expressed some concern over.
