General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE BATTLE OF DEL'AL-MEIN: 

The battle itself was of little note, grand strategy and tactics being poorly
defined and little understood at the time, it would be unfair to completely
ignore the major actions, especially as the repercussions would be so far
reaching into the future (cf. The Darmoks of the Second Age - Anilstathis)
(cf. Secret Battles of the Drow - Anilstathis)

Two warlords were to tunnel from opposite directions in a hope that one
would avoid detection (this was common raiding doctrine).  Regardless of
their success, the remaining warlords would initiate a massed ground attack
as soon as the alarms had been raised and Elven forces committed.  It was
hoped that with the Drow defense tied down by the tunneling groups, the
ground forces would make short work of whatever was left.

While simplistic and seemingly easy to execute, the plan began to fall apart
almost from the beginning.  One tunneling group hit bedrock, and was forced
to re dig in an alternate direction.  Not realizing the other groups problem,
the second tunneling group advanced steadily and triggered the Drow alarms 
right on schedule.

The alarms themselves had been constructed too sensitively, and when one went
off, they all triggered.  Drow forces could not pin down where the attack
was coming from and began rushing to all fronts at once. 

Thinking the Drow confusion denoted both tunneling groups arrival, the three
ground units charged in a disorganized fashion lest one of the other warlords 
gain the prize first.  Unfortunately, this rash advance led them smack into the
midst of the pit traps and other hazards, and it was the dwarves who took the 
first casualties without a blow having been thrown.
