General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE NEO-HUMANS

Within six generations the neo-humans had all but taken over the leadership of
human kind, they were that far superior.  In another 8 generations, it was near
impossible to find a non neo-human, for the blood lines of each major lineage
had intermingled itself sufficiently with that of the hybrids that the original
humans were on the way to extinction.

Still more generations went by and the neo-humans were the sole survivors.  But
the fallout of the Shercadian plan had yet to begin.  Each race likes to blame
the problems that were created on the traits of the other, while taking credit
for the benefits, and there are certainly enough problems and benefits to go
around.  For you see, the humans were highly efficient at exploiting the gifts
the races had given them.

In the early years, while the Four Races were trying to exploit the neo-humans,
they were in turn being exploited for the knowledge they possessed.  Metal
lore, innovation and craftsmanship, farming and agriculture and magic all
passed from its original masters into the hands of humanity.  As time went by,
these skills were broadened and intermingled.  While the Four Races remained
the experts in their fields, humanity kept up as close seconds in all areas.

The close of the Second Age of The World would see each of the Four Races
stabilized upon The World.  The Faeries had completely faded from the scene,
and more pressing concerns had caused them to be all but forgotten.  A
precarious peace existed where each race was more concerned with its own
survival then the destruction of its enemies.  And perhaps as an indicator of
things to come, the humans were gradually closing the gap between their
knowledge and those of the Four Races.
