General Treatise from the Archive of Historian Anilstathis as it pertains to:
THE THIRD AGE OF THE WORLD

Throughout the Second Age, human society had been modeled upon that of the
Four Races.  Their were tribe-like communities that were mostly territorial and
predominantly tied to a certain type of terrain for survival.  They formed
above group dwellings like the elves and except for the occasional meeting
between some members of humanity and the Four Races, there was little contact.
The Coronation of Emperor Spirt would not only change human society, but would
herald the beginning of the Third Age.

Up until this time, each human enclave had a local ruler and the individual
enclaves were not likely to mix much except for the occasional marriages or
other special events.  While the gnomes had one grand leader, they were much
too communal to think in terms of all owing allegiance to one person.  The
dwarves had a Darmok, but not since the days following Del'Al-mein had this
title been undisputed.  So when the human races crowned Spirt Emperor of all
Humanity, it was a momentous event.

The exact reasons for his coronation are best left as a separate volume, but
the immediate results of it can not be so lightly dismissed.  (cf. The
Ignoble Rise to Power of Emperor Spirt and the Shame of The First Human
Dynasty - Anilstathis)  In his 10 initial directives, Spirt ordered each human
enclave to establish and maintain regular contact with the 3 closest other
enclaves.  Additionally, he ordered that the product of one enclave be made
available to those it had contact with in a fair exchange.  The construction
of traversable paths between enclaves was also ordered.  In short, Spirt laid
down the construction of civilization itself, and at the time this was a
unique idea.
