Any person not formally a member of a faction is considered unaffiliated.
The unaffiliated are chiefly a bunch of independent fence-sitters that have
either not yet decided which side to join, or a handful of idealists who
realize the futility of the conflict going on about them.  Forced to maintain
the appearance of neutrality, they have adopted the free city of Grimhaven as
home.

Unaffiliated recognize no leader for their beliefs, nor are they subject to
faction tithes.  The unaffiliated strive to uphold their appearance of
neutrality for neutrality's sake.  They are not separate from the affairs of
The World, nor do their beliefs allow them to do as they please; they simply
seek to maintain an evenhanded disposition in regards to all sides.

Unaffiliated clerics and deikhans derive their piety from certain affiliated
deities that have seen fit to aid them in an attempt to encourage the
unaffiliated to take one side or the other.  While this represents a conflict
of interest for the unaffiliated cleric, it is a necessary evil if the cleric
is to be productive with their prayers.  Because of their detachment,
unaffiliated clerics and deikhans are not subject to the waxing and waning
power shifts amongst the various deities; whatever deity is ascendent at the
time will aid unaffiliateds in order to win their support.  However, this
support is limited and nowhere near as powerful as if the cleric were actually
a member of that faction.

Unaffiliateds raise their faction percent through aiding other unaffiliateds,
and by maintaining an even disposition toward all other factions.  Harming
only one faction may raise the unaffiliated percent briefly, but over time,
the imbalance in action will cause a detriment to the unaffiliated.  
Additionally, it is not possible to reach the upper reaches of faction percent 
without helping other unaffiliateds to some degree.

See Also: -
Related Topics: FACTIONS
